---
layout: post

categories: evolution
title: Peter meeting
---






 








-   [SICB](http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2011/abstracts/index.php3 "http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2011/abstracts/index.php3")
    conference
    -   Abstract -- sent

Phylogenetic comparative methods have become all but ubiquitous in only
a few decades, forcing us to reconsider if information from a
phylogenetic tree can justify the results. Existing approaches to this
question have been inadequate and do not scale with tree size or the
ability to resolve branches. For instance, selection between
phylogenetic models typically based on information criteria fails to
adequately reflect this uncertainty, and can lead to preference for
arbitrarily complicated models. Common measures of phylogenetic signal
tend to characterize the goodness-of-fit of a Brownian motion model to
the data, rather than indicate whether the data is sufficient to
confidently distinguish between different hypotheses. We present a Monte
Carlo based approach that allows us to reliably select models of the
appropriate complexity and identify when a given phylogenetic tree
contains insufficient information to test the hypothesis. We conclude
that researchers should not assume a model such as Brownian motion a
priori but test alternate hypotheses; not test for correlations between
traits and branch lengths before applying a phylogenetic model but
rather analyze the power of the tree to identify the chosen model from
the alternative hypotheses.

-   -   Application
    -   Membership?

\

\

