---
layout: post
tags: []
categories: evolution
title: Phylogenetics Workshop Day 5
---






 








Last day of lectures: Lineage Diversification

### Brian Moore: Rates of Lineage Diversification

[Bodega Wiki slides &
tutorial](http://bodegaphylo.wikispot.org/Diversification_Rates_%28Moore%29 "http://bodegaphylo.wikispot.org/Diversification_Rates_%28Moore%29")

1.  Detecting significant diversification rate variation across tree
2.  locate shifts along branches
3.  and through time (niche-filling, density dep models?)
4.  correlates of differential rates
5.  parameter estimation speciation/extinction

![ P = \\frac{2r}{n-1}
](http://openwetware.org/images/math/2/7/c/27c62056e13cc9ba6d2455dd467aaf0a.png)

#### correlates of differential rates

1.  Apply Felsenstein pruning algorithm to calc likelihood and hence fit
    model this is just the definition of a joint probability!
2.  Use this to estimate the model, then do rejection sampling to create
    the tree painting. as in [Nielsen & Yang
    2002](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12396587 "pmid:12396587")

This is applied to differential rates question in [Ree et. al.
2005](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16396171 "pmid:16396171")

-   Simply ask if group A or B observed more branching events along the
    stochastic map. Compare to a null that randomizes the branch lengths
    as waiting times under pure yule model.
    -   *Methinks* this creates null trees that violate the coalescent
        pattern of longer branches near the base, but guess Yule is the
        opposite of coalescent anyway...

-   Comparison method: Moore's cross-validation approach: split tree
    into two parts, generate background rate from one, use that rate to
    create a distribution, of possible outcomes and compare that
    distribution to the observed rate in the test clade. Also handle
    uncertainty in the time of the rate transition, (Bayesian). Good
    when traits fall out in clades.
    -   *Methinks* should compare the two-rate directly to the single
        rate fitted to the entire tree, for completeness.
    -   Wonder where else we should start trying cross-validation
        approaches in comparative methods. Perhaps in comparison to the
        OU(LP) Anoles painting approach?

-   Trickle-down problem -- one rapid clade can inflate the score
    farther down the tree.
-   AIC comparison of assigning different shift points.

#### r88s

Parameter estimation Bayesian approach to explore shifts in
diversification rate via DPP!

\

### Community Phylogenetics Sharon Strauss, Jean Burns

[Details on Bodega
Wiki](http://bodegaphylo.wikispot.org/Community_Phylogenetics "http://bodegaphylo.wikispot.org/Community_Phylogenetics")

-   Community assembly: Niche, History, or random?
    -   (Janzen Connell hypothesis of diversity optimal radius in
        seed-shadow for recruitment)

1.  build a tree of a regional species pool
2.  build a tree of local community
3.  generate null comunities

\

-   *Methinks* Not robust to incomplete sampling of the community
    phylogenetics null model vs comparative trait methods

-   Null distribution should be generated by the non-interacting model!!

-   Phylocom tutorial

Thoughts & Ideas scratch pad
----------------------------

1.  Density dependent estimates

Levins model (logistic) style: ![ \\dot n = b n (S - n) - e n
](http://openwetware.org/images/math/f/a/4/fa43e4271b9fd0673552b69b447d9860.png)

calculate probability n conditional on non-extinction for remaining
time. let's start by assuming stationarity across whole tree. Then the
number of lineages observed at time *t* should decrease exponentially.
This pattern looks just like the pure birth model or the constant rates
model. When this pattern ceases to hold, we're out of the realm of
constant rates and we head into the dynamic model. What should be the
signal? slower than exponential fall-off.

ha, we often look for the other pattern -- accelerating rates.

1.  Community phylogenetics should generate nulls under evolutionary
    models, not random reshuffling.

(Will develop this further. Also, evening session to focus on Labrid
analysis, general research progress).

\

\

