---
layout: post

categories:  teaching
---





 





Regime Shifts Seminar take two
------------------------------

-   Today I was again up for the regime shifts class to cover the
    details Alan's Ecology Letters paper. Board lecture style on content
    I'm comfortable with, so enjoyable for me but hardly much of an
    experiment in effective teaching. Still, something that can be done
    well or poorly, so I think today went well.
-   Began with individuals at the board to review the four principle
    figures from the previous class -- birth rates and death rates,
    difference in rates, the bifurcation diagram and the potential
    landscape. Proceeded in traditional board lecture style without
    prepared notes, which worked better than I expected from my point of
    view though probably with the same low uptake efficiency of even
    good or entertaining lectures. One of the key exercises was in
    demonstrating how the potential landscape emerges from integrating
    the rate (force) equation using the visual boxes of Riemann sums on
    the board. I think this helps demystify the landscapes. The worst
    thing about the landscapes is that the bifurcations are much harder
    to visualize than in any of the former graphs, as the whole
    landscape contorts. Going in the reverse from the non-smooth
    landscape to the discontinuous birth and death rules was also
    illustrative.
-   It would be interesting to explore if plotting by hand the functions
    and integrals was significantly more or less effective than plotting
    them in a computer. It's good to be reminded that the integrals can
    be qualitatively visualized by hand without rigorous math or a
    computer. Learning computer tools and getting the more accurate
    picture has advantages too, and leaves a record of what you did. In
    either case, having others do this by hand would probably have been
    more useful.
-   Lastly, learning to wait long enough for questions, go slow enough
    to keep people following without condescending, asking more
    questions and knowing when to sit back are some good general goals.

\

