---
layout: post
tags: [ Labrids]
categories: evolution
title: Bodega Workshop Presentations
---






 








Final day of Bodega Phylogenetics workshop: a full day of student
presentations. (High resolution images for the trees available by
clicking on them)

Principle figures from my investigation of the Labrid data. While
morphospace doesn't present an obvious clustering, it can be effectively
divided by my maximum likelihood partitioning scheme on fin angle. A
smoothed density plot of fin angle alone reveals two identifiable modes
in the traitspace.

![image](http://openwetware.org/images/7/71/2_data.png)

Based on the discretized partition, ancestral states are reconstructed
under both the equal rates and independent rates model. Independent
rates offers a negligible improvement in likelihood score (-loglik of 72
vs 73)

![image](http://openwetware.org/images/thumb/9/90/3_discrete.png/480px-3_discrete.png)

Without discretizing, I infer ancestral state based on Brownian motion.
information is rapidly lost in the inference, and the ancestral states
become simple averages of the observed traits.

![image](http://openwetware.org/images/thumb/5/52/4_cts.png/480px-4_cts.png)

Using the discrete trait analysis, I assign nodes to their more likely
reconstruction and use this as the painting scheme for the inference
under continuous traits. A stochastic mapping reconstruction could
assign nodes randomly based on the probability inferred by the
reconstruction. The full simmap approach could also be taken. I doubt
the results would differ much between the approaches, as most of the
information is in the tips anyway.

![image](http://openwetware.org/images/thumb/3/37/5_painted.png/480px-5_painted.png)

The likelihood distributions generated by bootstrapping 200 replicates
shows strong confirmation of the more complex model. Very satisfying in
light of the challenges in the Anoles data!

![image](http://openwetware.org/images/7/7b/6_boot.png)

Feedback from the results has been quite compelling and am beginning to
write this up a small manuscript. We'll need to reduce to two figures.
