---
layout: post

categories:  teaching
---





 





Early Warning Signals to Regime Shifts Seminar
----------------------------------------------

-   I was just responsible for covering a relatively technical paper on
    the idea of detecting early warning signals to regime shifts. This
    is a class of about 10 people. First half we took turns on the
    board, relying entirely on graphical analysis, and going from a
    birth death model through stability analysis to illustrate
    bi-stability to the bifurcation diagram and the energy landscape
    representation. In the second half we explored an individual-based
    stochastic simulation module in netlogo in which we could move
    slider bars for parameters and observe the bifurcation and
    population crash.

-   The board work went very well with people taking turns getting us to
    the next step. I believe it was clear that (a) not everyone
    understood this analysis at the beginning and (b) were able to
    figure it out at the board with a little bit of guidance and (c)
    seemed very engaged in the process. The netlogo activity ended up
    being done predominately on my machine connected to the projector
    rather than in pairs at individual computers in front of everyone.
    Getting groups started on an activity seems to be a challenge to me,
    and transitioning between little groups and whole class discussion
    remains something I really need to figure out. In this case the
    whole-group exploration of the netlogo simulation guided by me was
    probably best anyway, as I didn't have clear directions or time for
    people to work in groups.

Evaluation
----------

-   I was also pleased by the prepwork required to do this. Initially it
    took me about 3 hrs (while stuck on a train) to learn how to get a
    population model into netlogo. Realizing that I can only do
    individual-based birth and death rates (so divide the population
    rates by population size), and learning the ` count sheep ` command
    were key steps. I debated coding the dynamics in R, or in C and
    writing a python interface for slider bars, but the netlogo approach
    was much easier. Still, I was frustrated by not knowing how to make
    netlogo do graphs that don't have time on the x axis, or the rather
    cumbersome way I have to calculate warning signals such as variance.
    Once I figured out the basics, I was able to write the actual
    netlogo code we used in about an hour this morning, and guide the
    board discussion without more than a sketch of my plan.

-   I still debate whether interactive learning must involve slower pace
    and less coverage than traditional approaches. Overall I was happy
    with how much we covered today and think it successfully facilitated
    an accelerated discovery process relative to what would happen in
    normal lecture + homework exercise. The fact that we hardly talked
    about the article I was supposed to cover notwithstanding...

-   On the science side, the simulation did a good job of illustrating a
    case where there was a mathematical warning signal, in terms of a
    weakening eigenvalue, (despite the model having the stochasticity
    built in intrinsically and not just added to the landscape picture),
    but at the same time it was hard to detect without long-time
    averages, slow changes, or replicates.

Going Forward
-------------

-   Thinking about writing up a little manuscript with the examples and
    discussion of the theory we covered.

-   Trying to figure out what makes this post useful and what just
    wastes time. Thinking about adding the netlogo code up here, and/or
    figures covering the examples. Might be better placed in my lab
    notebook on stochastic population dynamics.

\

