---
layout: post

categories:  teaching
---





 





Evolution of Mimicry & Levels of Selection
------------------------------------------

-   Today my turn to help facilitate in Begun's Monte Carlo on designing
    a course on evolution for non-majors. Worked with Elizabeth on an
    interactive case study teaching levels of selection through the
    example of mimicry in butterflies.
-   Following a brief introduction, we gave a pilot run of a hands-on
    activity to explore population dynamics in a
    predator-control-model-mimic (jay-cabbage-monarch-viceroy) system.
    Here's the
    [description](http://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AR6sK_1tc7DZZGdmYnQyZzVfODE0NGs3ODRmeA&hl=en "http://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AR6sK_1tc7DZZGdmYnQyZzVfODE0NGs3ODRmeA&hl=en").
-   The game activity went pretty quickly, we were able to do seven
    iterations in about 15 minutes, with the later iterations going much
    faster than the beginning ones. Our group was only nine people,
    hence the cups allowing people to play multiple prey at once, but
    this could easily scale to a very large classroom (though probably
    making iterations take longer). The group did seem to find the
    activity becoming repetitive by round seven.
-   One modification I'd make to the rules after this is that the
    reproduction rate must be per capita up to the carrying capacity,
    with set reproductive rates for each species (i.e. 1 for model, 2
    for mimic and control).
-   We discussed but didn't try following up the interactive simulation
    with a computer-based netlogo simulation. Ideally, the students
    could write the simulation from a netlogo template, implementing the
    rules of the game and adding sliding bars for the parameters. This
    would allow them to explore the model with more statistically
    meaningful sample sizes, but also be a good introduction to
    programming for modeling. Learning the specific rules of the game
    hopefully serves as a concrete example of what a model and
    simulation involve. Having to write the model one's self should help
    empower students to ask and then explore questions about what if
    this rule or that rule were different.

### Response

-   Overall the feedback seemed quite positive. People found the
    activity engaging and thought the netlogo exercise sounded like a
    promising extension.
-   I'm wondering what aspects of active group activity make them most
    effective. One idea we discussed before presenting was the chance
    for students to engage in trying out strategies vs simply iterating
    the rules. The current structure doesn't involve many decisions --
    the predators have a simple decision to make and the prey have none.
    Adding decisions without making the activity too complicated is
    challenging; the prisoner's dilemma is a good a example of a game
    with simple rules but a non-trivial decision for all players.
    Another idea I'm thinking about is the collaborative aspect of the
    game. Without prompting, predators today tended to chat about
    strategy and try to guess what would happen next, which gets them
    more engaged into the activity. Seeding the activity with questions
    to answer might also help (such as trying to predict the long-term
    outcome).
-   Julia suggested trying this module in the Sacramento Teachers
    workshop this May. Might have to actually develop the netlogo
    module.

### Comments?

Testing an html plugin for leaving comments in the notebook directly. If
you're reading this feel free to give the comments script a try.

\

\

