---
layout: post

categories:  teaching
---





 





Faculty Mentoring Faculty Presentation
--------------------------------------

### "Short Cuts to Excellent Teaching: A Primer"

-   by James Shaffrath,
-   from Exercise Biology, The Department of Neurobiology, Physiology
    and Behavior

Just saw this presentation in the Faculty Mentoring Faculty program.
Good program, though pretty basic, not really touching on peer learning
but focusing on lecture content and style. Things like rolling lexicon
(using both jargon and simple phrases), being present, being engaging.
The broad introduction was definitely the best part, and an inspiring
view about the role of education. What I took away most, though, was the
paradigm of **Teachers as heroes, teachers as friends.** The human
element dominates the teaching experience, it's captured in the
photograph of the girl's expression on finding the word "brilliant" in
her first dictionary, and in James' penetrating assertion that there's
someone else in the room seeing that expression. His highest goal was
lighting the spark of education, the W.B. Yeats quote I've had to add to
the notebook cover. A bit on my reaction follows.

### Reflection on the talk

Some of my favorite professors would walk into the classroom with
nothing but a piece of chalk, offer no more introduction than to kick
off his shoes to some corner and begin lecturing, scrawling away on the
blackboard regardless of whether half the class hadn't yet arrived or
sat down. We'd all copy notes furiously in that class, understand very
little of it; everyone trying to keep up with the logic of the formulae
for as many minutes as possible before falling back into scribe mode;
but it didn't matter. We'd been given the spark, the professor knew
something we wanted to know, and we worked like hell to learn it. The
learning always came after though, from each other and the TAs in all
those night-long problem sessions. I've focused on that element more in
my thoughts on teaching, and how it can be facilitated and improved --
the actual learning itself. But I think I must remember the role of the
teacher as that spark as well, as a hero. After all, the will to learn
comes first.

\

\

