---
layout: post
tag: conference
categories: evolution
title: Evolution 2010 Day 3
---






 








-   **Chris Martin**: Trophic innovation drives exceptional rates of
    morphological diversification in two adaptive radiations of
    Cyprinodon pupfishes

Fantastic story of exceptional rates of evolution and trophic novelty in
two tropical lakes. (8:45, Adaptation 9, talk 097002)

-   **David Plachetzki**: Deep homology and the evolution of animal
    senses: insights from Cnidaria

Cnidarians have homologous proteins to opsins and taste receptors!

-   **Jeremy Yoder**: Coevolution and gene flow in obligate pollination
    mutualism

Two species of joshua tree each with its own pollinator yucca moth. Moth
larva laid in and eat some of Joshua tree fruit, obligate for
pollination but if too many eggs are laid tree aborts that fruit. Nice
gene flow story reflecting the ability/inability of each moth to
cross-pollinate the other tree. Trees overlap in distribution only at
one location (top of a horseshoe shape in Nevada).

-   **Pat MacIntyre**: Adaptation and niche breath among polyploid
    cytotypes of Claytonia perfoliata

-   **Peter Ralph**: Spatial parallel evolution: one wave or many?

Nice spatial spread genetic structure model

-   **Tracy Heath** (Huelsenbeck group) A Dirchlet process model for
    estimating lineage-specific substitution rates and dating
    divergences

[github source code?]

-   **Charles Marshall**: Looking under the hood: the meaning of
    Bayesian priors on divergence times in light of the nature of the
    fossil record

Excellent talk discussing limitations and challenges in dating fossils,
particularly limitations in rock record itself. A couple nice papers for
much better ways on selecting which fossils to use, etc.

-   **Michael Turelli**: Spatial spread of CI-causing Wolbachia

Cubic growth function for spread of wolbachia with an allee effect, and
how this modifies Fisher's wave equation for spatial spread. Going to
applied in 7 million dollar project in releasing wolbachia-infected
mosquitoes in Australia to control Dange fever.

-   **Tom Near**: Informed calibration priors and calibration sampling
    strategies in molecular divergence time of ray-finned fishes

-   NESCent information session

-   Dinner with some NESCent folks

\

