---
comments: true
date: 2011-11-15 23:28:14
layout: post
slug: tuesday-10
title: 'Tues: Sources of stochastic variation in optimal control'
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/3313, /archives/3313]
categories:
- ecology
tags:
- pdg-control
---

Adding stochasticity seems to have a small history. 

Reed 1979 Reed, 1979 Uncertainty in _next year's stock_, "growth uncertainty" at the time of determining harvest.  Constant escapement policy, no chance of extinction.  

Clark & Kirkwood 1986 Clark & Kirkwood, 1986 Uncertainty in _this year's stock_, "measurement uncertainty" when determining harvest.  

[Roughgarden & Smith (1996)](http://www.pnas.org/content/93/10/5078.short) consider both, and add uncertainty in harvest.  Sethi et al. 2005 (Sethi _et. al._ 2005) consider the economist's optimization of this.



###  Statement of problem 



$$ \max_{ \{ q_t \} \leq 0 }  \mathbb{E} \left\{ \sum_0^{\infty} \alpha^t h_t \right\}  $$

s.t. 
Fish population follows: $ x_t = z_t^g f( x_{t-1} - h_{t-1} ) $
and measured stock is given by: $ m_t = z_t^m x_t $
while harvest is: $ h_t = \min (x_t, z_t^i q_t) $

Where $ z^g $ denotes uncertainty in population growth, $ z^m $ denotes uncertainty in measurement for the stock assessment, and $ z^i $ denotes uncertainty in harvest implementation. Note we ignore the profit function for the moment and just maximize infinite-horizon harvest.

From this we must set up the stochastic transition matrix.  Instead of defining this over the known current stock values $x_t $ as we did before, our decision state-space is defined over the measured values $ m_t $, which is given by:

$$ m_t = z_t^m z_t^g f\left( x_{t-1} - \min(x_{t-1}, z_{t-1}^i q_{t-1})  \right) $$

The trick here is assigning the probability distribution on $ m_t $.  Otherwise the optimization proceeds as before with the modified stochastic transition matrix.  Sethi et al., and Clark & Kirkwood choose uniform random variables over given intervals for each, which seems like a rather strange choice.  Reed 1979 uses a normal distribution.  

Have implemented a general simulation-based approach to generate the stochastic transition matrix for arbitrary distribution shapes for $ z_t^g $, $ z_t^m $, $ z_t^i $.  




###  Further topics 



(parameter uncertainty - more extensive literature)

(modified to be effort-based. Explore with an allee effect).





##  Misc 


Completed review for THEE.


## References


- Sethi G, Costello C, Fisher A, Hanemann M and Karp L (2005).
"Fishery Management Under Multiple Uncertainty."
*Journal of Environmental Economics And Management*, **50**.
ISSN 00950696, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jeem.2004.11.005">http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jeem.2004.11.005</a>.



-  on Uncertain Renewable Resource Stocks: Optimal Harvest Policies And The Value of Stock Surveys, Colin W. Clark, Geoffrey P. Kirkwood,  (1986) *Journal of Environmental Economics And Management*, **13**    [10.1016/0095-0696(86)90024-0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0095-0696(86)90024-0)
-  Optimal Escapement Levels in Stochastic And Deterministic Harvesting Models, William J Reed,  (1979) *Journal of Environmental Economics And Management*, **6**    [10.1016/0095-0696(79)90014-7](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0095-0696(79)90014-7)
