---
comments: true
date: 2011-02-23 17:58:45
layout: post
slug: esa-2011-
title: 'ESA 2011 Abstract: Limits to Detection of Early Warning Signals'
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/1099, /archives/1099]
categories:
- ecology
tags:
- warning-signals
---

Just submitted my abstract to for an oral presentation at the [Ecological Society of America 2011 ](http://www.esa.org/austin/)meeting in Austin, based on my recent work on early warning signals.  Here it is:


## Limits to Detection of Early Warning Signals of Population Collapse




### Background/Question/Methods


The  recognition that ecosystems can undergo sudden shifts to alternate,  less desirable stable states has led to the desire to identify early  warning signs of these impending collapses.  This search has been  motivated by the mathematics of bifurcations, in which sudden shifts  result not from direct perturbations to the state (i.e. the population  abundance, through mechanisms such as over-harvesting)  but to a slowly  changing parameter that impacts the system stability.  While these  collapses cannot be anticipated by observing only the mean dynamics (as  described by a deterministic model), signs of the impending collapse are  expressed in the random perturbations, or noise, inherent in real  systems.  The mathematical theory of early warning signs exploits this  fact by seeking to detect patterns such as “critical slowing down” of  these perturbations due to the gradual loss of stability which leads to a  bifurcation.

While much attention has been given to emphasizing the existence both of sudden collapses and of signs of critical slowing down, little attention has been paid to its detection.   Faced with only finite data, any method risks both false alarms and  failed detection events.  We believe that weighing these risks must be  the burden of management policy, while research must first provide a  reliable way to quantify the relative risks of each.  We present a  method which quantifies this risk and show how to decrease the  uncertainty inherent in common summary-statistic approaches through the  use of a likelihood based modeling approach.


### Results/Conclusions


We  demonstrate that commonly used correlation tests applied to summary  statistics such as autocorrelation and variance are both inappropriate  and insufficient tests of early warning signals.

Our  method estimates directly the parameters of a generalized model of the  bifurcation postulated by early warning signals theory, with and without  the presence of a gradual change leading towards collapse.  Using Monte  Carlo simulation we generate the distribution of warning-signal  statistics expected under each model.  From this we can quantify the  risk of false alarms and missed detection.  We then show how applying  this approach to the data directly rather than the summary statistic  increases the power of detection.  We illustrate the approach in both  simulated and empirical data of sudden ecological shifts.
