---
comments: true
date: 2011-07-29 17:26:44
layout: post
slug: '2268'
title: 'Friday: ESA Practice Talk'
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/2268, /archives/2268]
categories:
- ecology
tags:
- warning-signals
---

Practice talk in Teary today; Jamie, Marissa and myself.  Lots of discussion and feedback. Some good general discussion about presentations as well -- Marissa mentioned the Oceanographic Institute's [tips for speakers](http://www.tos.org/resources/publications/sci_speaking.html) and other resources [on her website](http://www.des.ucdavis.edu/faculty/baskett/links/communication.html). Brief notes on changes to make in my talk based on some excellent discussion:



	
  * Julie and others point out I should at least reference Type I & Type II Error -- statement contrasting scientific hypothesis testing vs managing for collapse.

	
  * Consensus that I should open with data from real collapses, _e.g. _North Atlantic Cod.

	
  * **ROC Curves** -- Don't work or aren't necessary for everyone (I think Peter and I could do without them at least), but most felt they helped substantially. Sounds like I should definitely keep them but explain even more slowly. Some revisions on the explanation movies might help.

	
  * Sebastian suggested cross-hair marker indicating the false-positive/true-positive for the current point.  Could probably use a few more frames in 'videos' too.

	
  * Must label blue and red distributions, repeatedly.

	
  * Add disclaimers on model generality -- illustrate the process

	
  * bubbles/cartoons/images

	
  * Add citations




## Misc





	
  * filed CSGF receipts




## Review of the Week


Created ESA practice presentation.  Small edits on manuscript figures and appendix.
