---
comments: true
date: 2011-05-29 23:24:59
layout: post
slug: sunday-2
title: Sunday
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/1848, /archives/1848]
categories:
- evolution
tags:
- ropensci
---

* Completed phylogenetic power manuscript updates based on Peter's comments.  Graham will read Monday.
* Took a whack at updating the treebase package with a method for grabbing nexus character matrices.  See[ github issues log](https://github.com/cboettig/treeBASE/issues/3), querying Emmanuel on this one.
* Local directory management / cleanup


### Prepare annual progress report for committee
	
* Phylogenetics Power manuscript. Nearly there.  (SICB presentation)
* Warning signals manuscript resubmission. (Presenting at ESA)
* Generalized comparative method/release of constraint -- method done, time to write.  (Presenting at Evolution.)
* TreeBASE manuscript.  (Presenting at iEvoBio.)

### Recent progress summary for Duncan

#### RMendeley:

* Public API done,
* I've learned to create windows binaries, and it's now being tested by some of the Mendeley team (W. Gunn).
* Need an authentication example to do the user-specific API
* Have some requests up on the Mendeley development list and the developer wiki for some modifications to API (i.e. search stats should return paper uuids)
* Considering entering in the competition?  Not to win but could be fun, and would get some free Amazon time.

#### TreeBASE:

* API implementation is done for the phylogenies.
* Example explorations [up in notebook](http://www.carlboettiger.info/archives/1702):
* [Issues](https://github.com/cboettig/treeBASE/issues?sort=created&direction=desc&state=open) list on github
* Waiting for treeBASE developers to add Dryad IDs to pull dryad data out as well.  Meanwhile, working on a work-around using the Dryad database
* Presenting as a lightning talk at iEvoBio conference
* Considering combining with Dryad and Mendeley and entering into the [data integration challenge](http://ievobio.org/challenge.html) at iEvoBio conference.  Thoughts?
* Starting short manuscript, could try bioinformatics or BMC bioinformatics, could certainly go in

#### Dryad:


* Basic data-pulling interface implemented.
* Scott Chamberlain, Graduate Student at Rice. now helping with development of the package.
* Scott has added the metadata search capacity.

#### socialR:

* gitR, etc.  Need to update this to use native R functions instead of the command-line utilities for flickr, twitter, git.
* I need to figure out explicit semantics we discussed, and then figure out how to save/log work.  Will try and write this out carefully.

There are lots of reasons this uses flickR for images over an S3 repository (though maybe good reasons to do both).

* Flickr API is already built and already familiar to a large userbase,
* Flickr has a database structure, making it easy to tag, search, browse by date, etc
* Flickr API is widely implemented -- easy to get simulation results in real time on my phone, add results to wordpress realtime using plugin with search criteria, etc.
* Flickr is a social web app, with notions of privacy, sharing, licensing, searching

## From Friday

  * Edits to pmc package
  * begun package vignette in Sweave to illustrate how results are produced.
  * would be nice if sweave had syntax highlighting, see the[ stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4808052/sweave-syntax-highlighting-in-output) on this.  Can't seem to get minted.sty working, won't recognize my install of pygmatize.


## A minimal summary of Progress this week

ROC Curves.
