---
comments: true
date: 2011-09-29 16:46:03
layout: post
slug: thursday-10
title: Thursday
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/2772, /archives/2772]
categories:
- ecology
- evolution
tags:
- coursework
---



* 9-9:20 Updating research statement (home page).
* 9:20 -9:40 Updating notebook: Review, Tuesday & Wednesday meetings
* coffee
* 9:50 Application.
* 10-11:30:

## Forage fish dynamics, Sanchirico and Essington

Jim gives the broad overview,  central question: What are the benefits/costs of a % reduction in the catch C of forage fish N:

$$ \Delta C \downarrow \to \Delta N \to  \Delta F, \Delta M \Delta S$$

F predator commercial fisheries, M marine mammals, S seabirds.

Stock effects, fishmeal fish oil, vitamin supplements

What are the benefits and costs from a percent (say 20) reduction in the catch of a forage fish?


* Week 2: Introductory discussion on the information necessary to answer this policy question (Jim) and discussion of the current regulatory tools being used to manage forage fish around the world (Tim)
* Week 3: **Population regulation**, including bottom-up/environmental controls and top-down predation controls
* Week 4: **Ecosystem** function: Fish and Fisheries (relationship between forage fish abundance and productivity of harvested stocks)
* Week 5: **Ecosystem** function: Charismatic Fauna: Mammals and Seabirds (how dependent are these species on forage fish, spatial issues, etc. How do these species respond to depletion of forage fish?) $\dot M = f(M, N) $, $ \dot S = g(S, N) $
* Week 6: The **economics** of changes in **higher trophic catches** (what are the key issues when you go from mapping a change in an abundance of a predator fish to changes in value of the fishery? And, what examples are there from the literature on forage fish).
* Week 7: The **economics** of **fishmeal** and the potential impacts of a reduction of catch of the forage fish on feed prices, and agricultural prices (understanding the substitution possibilities of different types of protein in diets, etc).
* Week 8: The **economic** effects of the policy on **direct consumption, vitamin supplements, and bait**.
* Week 9: The **economics** of non-market values for **charismatic fauna** and valuing potential changes in their populations due to the policy.
* Week 10: Synthesis (Your job is try to put the pieces together…you can use pieces of presentation by others).

Key papers to start with:

* Alder's review: (Alder _et. al._ 2008)
* May's, showing MSY (max sustainable yield) cannot work for multi-species dynamics (May _et. al._ 1979).

Tim's section


* Case study: Peruvian anchovy collapse.  Upwelling west coast SA.  Mixed layer sinks during El Nino (1972), upwelling provides less nutrients.  Big loss in productivity for anchoveta.  High temps, Anchoveta cluster in colder thermal refuge.  Low recruitment plus high catch.
* Ecosystem-based Management: Minimum escapement (instead of MSY).  Can catch fewer on bad years
* Spatial management for central-place foragers.  (1) Spatial catch quotas, (_e.g._ in Southern Ocean), (2) No-take areas.  Case study in sand eel.

Next week: I'll present week 3 with Matt Whalen, possibly Patrick.


##  Application writing 


##  Edits on pmc paper 

## References


- Alder J, Campbell B, Karpouzi V, Kaschner K and Pauly D (2008).
"Forage Fish: From Ecosystems to Markets."
*Annual Review of Environment And Resources*, **33**.
ISSN 1543-5938, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.environ.33.020807.143204">http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.environ.33.020807.143204</a>.

- May R, Beddington J, Clark C, Holt S and Laws R (1979).
"Management of Multispecies Fisheries."
*Science*, **205**.
ISSN 0036-8075, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.205.4403.267">http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.205.4403.267</a>.
