---
comments: true
date: 2012-02-22 20:20:07
layout: post
slug: wednesday-12
title: Wednesday
redirects: [/wordpress/archives/3915, /archives/3915]
tags:
- ropensci
- coursework
categories:
- ecology
---


-   CC0 license approved for use on CRAN

-   Update my DESCRIPTION files, use the new Author@R convention.

-   Rebecca's comment on mntd in comparative methods

-   This lab notebook gets [mentioned](http://academia.stackexchange.com/questions/83/good-practices-for-organizing-notes) for good practices in academic workflow.

-   Working on treebase paper

-   ESA registration

-   Lecture notes for tomorrow

-   forage fish writing

Reading
-------

Reading over (Munch *et. al.* 2005). I think this is a very nice treatment, a lot clearer I think than lots of other stuff I've looked at (thanks Tim & Jim!). I think it highlights one of the difficulties at the boundary between our sections though.

I did notice they introduce predator density as a parameter, *μ*<sub>*T*</sub>, rather than as a function of forage fish density (N). They *assume* top-down effects aren't density dependent (by assuming predator pop doesn't grow when prey grows, though they could have added N in elsewhere in the T equation instead, they don't). Since they've assumed top-down mechanisms are density independent, they can't get an equilibrium size determined by top-down effects alone, equation (4) i.e. the pattern of control they report "finding" appears to me to be the pattern they "assumed" when they chose to make T independent of N. (Maybe I'm missing something but I feel I keep running into this kind of recursive argument).

Greatly enjoyed reading [Walters 2007](http://dx.doi.org/10.1579/0044-7447%282007%2936%5B304%3AIAMHTS%5D2.0.CO%3B2). The example of predictive disagreement between the two equally good-fitting shrimp-harvest models is a fantastic example, and quite evocative of what Steve Pacala talks about in the historic fits on the climate models.

References
----------

Munch S, Snover M, Watters G and Mangel M (2005). “A Unified Treatment of Top-Down And Bottom-up Control of Reproduction in Populations.” *Ecology Letters*, **8**. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00766.x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00766.x).
