---
layout: post
categories: ecology 
tags: [notebook-technology]

---


Monday
------

* altmetrics post
* post for multiple uncertainty, email to Steve, Marc
* Marc meeting
* ropensci proposals
* Phylotastic 

### Notebook configuration

* trying out http://greycite.knowledgeblog.org/.  Add to knitcitations.
* Add Greycite recommended opengraph and google scholar metadata [metadata.html](https://github.com/cboettig/labnotebook/blob/3a977cca64b852574f16ca63fe66308d4af6b2ed/_includes/metadata.html)
* Import metadata from `_config.yml`.  Any custom variable defined in config can be accessed at `site.varname`.  See updated [`_config.yml`](https://github.com/cboettig/labnotebook/blob/b0749aac9dec7fbe08af3768e29b24724d378763/_config.yml)

### Reading

* Schnitzler, J., Graham, C. H., Dormann, C. F., Schiffers, K., & Peter Linder, H. (2012). Climatic niche evolution and species diversification in the Cape flora, South Africa. (S. Higgins, Ed.)Journal of Biogeography, n/a-n/a. doi:10.1111/jbi.12028

* Clark, T., Dale, R., Waard, A. D., Herman, I., Hovy, E. H., Shotton, D., Birukou, A., et al. (2012). Force11 White Paper : Improving The Future of Research Communications and e-Scholarship, 11.

* Shotton, D. (2009). Semantic publishing: the coming revolution in scientific journal publishing. Learned Publishing, 22(2), 85-94. doi:10.1087/2009202

* Shotton, D. (2011). The Five Stars of Online Journal Articles-an article evaluation framework. Nature Preceedings. doi:10101/npre.2011.6542.1





Tuesday
-------

* FishBase paper is out
* Dissertation on FigShare
* Updated [geospatial life history data list](http://www.carlboettiger.info/assets/data)

### Reading


* Allesina, S. (2012). Modeling peer review: an agent-based approach. Ideas in Ecology and Evolution, 5(2), 27-35. doi:10.4033/iee.2012.5b.8.f

* Costello, C., Ovando, D., Hilborn, R., Gaines, S. D., Deschenes, O., & Lester, S. E. (2012). Status and solutions for the world's unassessed fisheries. Science (New York, N.Y.), 338(6106), 517-20. doi:10.1126/science.1223389

* Palumbo, M. J., Johnson, S. A., Mundim, F. M., Lau, A., Wolf, A. C., Arunachalam, S., Gonzalez, O., et al. (2012). Harnessing Smartphones for Ecological Education, Research, and Outreach. Bulletin of the Ecological Society of America, 93(4), 390-393. doi:10.1890/0012-9623-93.4.390

* Sibert, J., Senina, I., Lehodey, P., & Hampton, J. (2012). Shifting from marine reserves to maritime zoning for conservation of Pacific bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 109(44), 1-5. doi:10.1073/pnas.1209468109
