---
layout: post
category:
tags:
published: false

---


### Tasks 

- Policy costs                        MED
  - Issues for 3.1, 3.2 figures         FAST
  - Updated draft to team
- Multiple Uncertainty                LOW
  - Figure 3 (using uniform noise)      FAST
  - Updated table                       FAST
- Decision theory warning             LOW
- Managed signals                     LOW
- Comment piece                       HI
  - Outline                             FAST 
  - Select sections for Alan            FAST
  - Writing                             SLOW
- nonparametric-bayes                 MED
  - MLE query based on R&W posted to CV
  - Reasonably performing example for Reed & May models (even if with hand-picked hyperparameters)
  - Finish reading background info
  - Multispecies case?
- EWS review work with Noam           MED
- ropensci PLOS peice


### Rainy day
- Peter and Labrids email             FAST
- Rupert code
- colored noise equation
- Sebastian two-step transition & beetles simulation
- fix knitcitations

### Today 

- gem update
- feeds
- 11-16 notes
- 11-19 notes
- transparent graphs
- issues list updates
- Noam EWS chat


### Policy Costs

1) Jake's comments on section 2.2 into the text. DONE
2) Append Paul's 3 options email text onto section 3.3. DONE
3) The place I'd spend a little time is sections 3.1 and 3.2 
  As you know I'm a fan of both the realizations in Fig 3 and then the more distilled messages in Fig 4. I would keep and develop both more fully. E.g.
  * $c_1 \neq 0$ 
  * I'd tie my text in the opening paragraph very explicitly to what I showed in the realization ("as is apparent in the realization in Fig 3c around time t=27" or words like that). SOmetimes I found the things you commented on in the text hard to "find" in the figures and this would help
    - I would show all of the realizations for the same sequence of shocks.
    - I would either not show all four things on the same graphs 
    - I would keep the stock dynamics 
  * I'd do the calibration of Fig 4 along the line that we discussed and that you signalled in here. E.g. independent variable is % of max NPV. Then obtain the relevant c_i from Fig 2 for each functional form. Then obtain the relevant statistics that you graph as the dependent variable from the assemblage of runs.
  * In figure 4 I might show both variance in N and variance in h ties to a story about where the risk is placed (similar to what Dan is finding). Overall the role of Fig 4 is to distil / generalize the kind of observations highlighted in the realizations and show how they are affected by increasing costs of policy adjustment.
  * In the key conclusions in the Discussion - I would add the bullet "Functional form matters - not an innocuous thing when modelers tuck it in and, while daunting, empirical challenge to measure the size and "shape" of these costs becomes important."

