---
layout: post
title: Computing the value of information in management of a stochastic resource
categories: ecology, decision-theory
---

PDG Control
===========

After reading @Costello2010, taking a look at value of information in a dynamic context.  
Consider the model of @Sethi2005 (Costello is part of et al btw); a dynamic fisheries model with stochastic growth (a la Reed), stochastic measurement assessing the stock size, and stochastic implementation of the harvest.  

I first imagine the case where the real system is quite deterministic, say, with a tiny amount of growth stochasticity only.  I solve this optimal harvest problem using SDP and compare it to three other scenarios (simulating 100 realizations of each).  

1. where our estimate of the growth stochasticity is much higher, reflecting our lack of knowledge about growth, (in our the computation of the optimal solution)
2.  where our estimate of both growth and stock measurement is higher
3. where our estimate of all three is higher. 

- [Value of information](https://github.com/cboettig/pdg_control/blob/70e899ea4ecc52317cb6ff91c21406cf665cbaa9/inst/examples/value_of_information.md)

Compare this to solving the optimal solution under increasing uncertainty.  Still feels like uncertainty should impact profits, but not much:

- [Value of stochasticity](https://github.com/cboettig/pdg_control/blob/0bda7ca2f32b80a7905d6cbc302223f8811bc033/inst/examples/value_of_information.md)

Even _underestimating_ rather than overestimating the noise isn't so costly, only impacts cases where the population crashes.

- [Cost of underestimating](https://github.com/cboettig/pdg_control/blob/da6e0b933450755319a16d92efa4745883baa792/inst/examples/cost_of_underestimating.md)

Similarly for an Allee effect model, overestimating uncertainty doesn't result in very suboptimal (conservative) behavior...

- [Allee](https://github.com/cboettig/pdg_control/blob/4b89252c276a3cf9881f598ffe2070cc1cafde4a/inst/examples/value_under_allee.md)



Evolution stuff
===============

- More writing on Wrightscape manuscript.  Reply to Peter.
- rfishbase new version to CRAN? 
- Create table 1 for treebase
- Touch up pacakge documentation in treebase

Early warning
============

Large replicate sims with fine sampling -- creating memory issues on nodes on farm.  Too hot for SOCK, switching to MPI...



Package Documentation
=====================

Just as a test, I ran staticdocs `build_package` function on rfishbase, sticking the output into `inst/doc/html` (from the package root directory).  

```r 
library(staticdocs)
build_package("rfishbase", "inst/doc/html")
```

I then created the gh-pages branch with just the html docs and pushed to github.  

```
git branch gh-pages
git checkout gh-pages
rm -rf data/ man/ R/ README.md NEWS NAMESPACE DESCRIPTION demo/
mv inst/doc/html/* .
rm -rf inst/
git add *
git commit -a -m "gh-pages documentation"
git push origin gh-pages
git checkout master
```

Which means that the documentation now appears at: http://ropensci.github.com/rfishbase/

We can think about customizing the css to some ropensci standard if we like.  Should motivate me to get some more pretty examples in the documentation too.  I think there's a way to get vignettes to show up as well, will dig around a bit.  


Also created an index for all packages at http://ropensci.github.com

