---
layout: post
title: Data to Knowledge Day II and other notes
category: ecology
tags: [conference, hpc]

---


Great second day at the Data to Knowledge conference (a few notes below).  
Also I have been trying to move a few projects forward during the commute
and break. I've sent Alan my revisions on the prosecutor's fallacy manuscript,
getting pretty close. Following up on a query from John, ran a simulation 
showing the impact of having a delay in the timeseries before the slow 
change towards the bifurcation begins.  Certainly weakens power but 
does not preclude the linear-change model detecting the change, 
[see example](https://github.com/cboettig/earlywarning/blob/59e6da5cee663447509db0441c81fe4a6b960c34/inst/examples/delayed.md)
Also moving towards scheduling a call for the pdg-control manuscript on
stochastic policy costs; some notes below.  





Data to Knowledge Conference, Day 2
=========================

David A. Bader, algorithm design / HPC perspective

Opportunities:

1. HPC on big data (massive graphs) 
2. Streaming analytics:  Today's challenges aren't dense linear algebra. 
3. Informational visualization - more data on graph than we have pixels
4. Hetergeneous systems - a system that can reconfigure memory hierarchy on the fly
5. energy efficiency (moving data takes high energy as well as time)

This is not the time to get stuck in a single paradigm!
Scientific computing != MPI
Big data != Hadoop/Map-reduce

```
External disk -------------------------------------------- Internal memory
Hadoop -- traditional database -- cloud/cluster -- large shared memory
Easy programming -------------- harder
low performance --------------- higher performance
high energy use --------------- low energy use
```

Latency on memory (random access some address in a big global index) dominates over floating point calculations
Cray XMT 512 processor, 128 threads/processor, 64TB global memory, no cache.  



Jeff Hawkins: Brain as a streaming processor
----------

learning isn't about strengthening weights on synapses -- they form and vanish all the time.  connections are binary, with scalar permanence.  



------

The two-Layer learning system (classification problem)

* Layer 0 is the original problem:
* receive labeled and unlabeled data
* train a classifier on labeled example, predict for others.
* Layer 1 meta-classifier which tries to learn over which data layer 0 does well (using binary classification on layer 0 as true or false)





Policy Costs
===========

Framing the question: Need to discuss these issues, then get a someone to be point-person on each?

-  Policy costs -- Why this is important, what's already known. 
-  Typical ways these concerns are addressed (i.e. quadratic costs on control), similarity & differences.
-  Discussion of policy costs as "Regularization" 
-  Why stochastic?
-  Background: Reed model. 

Results so far: (discuss these, decide what needs more study)

-  Introduce & characterize the impact of different norms: L1, L2, asymmetric, fixed costs
-  Comparison to Reed
-  The double-pay of policy costs: Paying for the transactions, difference from optimal policy
-  Comparisons between these norms apples-to-apples. 

Discussion/Conclusion -- what do we highlight?

-  Must first answer - which journal/audience?




#Misc 

Modified css to use twitter-bootstrap striped tables as table default, since
markdown won't add a class on tables automatically.  Hopefully doesn't cause 
trouble with other table layouts.  


Note that `xtable` can handle this by toggling options"

```r
html.table.attributes=getOption("xtable.html.table.attributes", "class=table-striped"),
```

so setting html class of tables should work fine in `knitr`.  On the flip side,
sounds like pandoc would do better with ascii tables as input than with html tables?


