---
layout: posts
title: Project tracking
category: logistics
---

# Ecology

## PDG Control

 Has become a variety of different directions: 

### Policy Costs

* Considering different norms
* When can policy costs pay for themselves?

### Additional Noise

* Starts with replicating Sethi et al. (2005).
* Consider the performance of various non-optimal solutions, particularly regarding imperfect implementation

### Approaches to parameter, structural, and state uncertainty

* (Morph of) Training problem II from the working group. 
* Active adaptive management using grid -- for model choice example. DONE
* Add -- Myopic Bayes passive adaptive management for model choice
* Compare to -- stationary (no learning) solution averaging over models


## Warning signals

 * Accepted!
 * Streamline code and examples. Began updating functions to work in a more generic manner that is better for connecting in pipelines and swapping between indicators. 


## Fallacy

 * Write introduction with more basic background on warning signals
 * Touch up discussion, edits.
 * Updated runs from codebase. Heavy computation makes quick replication difficult

# Evolution

Still wrapping up a variety of Evolution-related projects.  

## treebase

 * [Manuscript]().  Reorganize, simplify?
 * additional functions

## Wrightscape

 * Start synthesizing documents
 * [Evidence for release in open lever ratio and kt](https://github.com/cboettig/wrightscape/blob/master/inst/examples/manuscript.md)
 * [Illustrating the different models](https://github.com/cboettig/wrightscape/blob/master/inst/examples/simulate_release.md)
 * Consider updated data format outputs and graphical processing functions for the model choice steps

## fishbase

 * submitted!
 * handling of reference ids?

## Adaptive dynamics 

 * What to do with time-to-branching results from Vienna with Ulf?
 * What to do with nice fast branching process simulation code? 
