---
layout: post
category: ecology
tags: 
- nonparametric-bayes
- code-tricks
- group-meeting

---




## Mangel group talk

* Presented nonparametric-bayes slides
* ADP introduction / trouble-shooting (see yesterday's entry), [html5 slides](https://github.com/cboettig/nonparametric-bayes/blob/094b44822abb47b1145f0a0bb0ae2c8364bbee25/inst/mydeck/slides.html)



### Notes

* Decent convergence in the forward algorithm is hard. Consider basis function representation of value function to decrease the search space in the backwards-algorithm first.  Also consider searching for policy function (under appropriate piecewise constraints).
* Starts to sound more and more similar to POMDP

## Misc

* Trouble with equations in [slidify/214](https://github.com/ramnathv/slidify/issues/214)
* Finishing up posts from last week

* **[On the lack of licenses on Github](http://osswatch.jiscinvolve.org/wp/2013/05/21/unlicensed-code-movement-or-madness/)**

R packages state licenses in the DESCRIPTION file, which automatically
recognizes standard licenses rather than distributing a copy of the
license.  This seems sensible but it's not like we don't have a few bits
to spare for a million duplicate copies of license files, so I suppose
I could add this in explicitly.

Clearly my own thinking on licenses has evolved ahead of my adaptation: 


```bash
$ grep "License" code/*/DESCRIPTION

AdaptiveDynamics/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL (>= 2)
earlywarning/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
fluctuationDomains/DESCRIPTION:License: CC ZERO 1.0 + file LICENSE
knitcitations/DESCRIPTION:License: CC0
mcmcTools/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
multiple_uncertainty/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
nonparametric-bayes/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
OUwie/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL (>= 2)
pdg_control/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
pmc/DESCRIPTION:License: CC0
populationdynamics/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
prosecutors-fallacy/DESCRIPTION:License: BSD
socialR/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL (>= 2)
structured-populations/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL (>= 3)
warningsignals/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL (>= 2)
wrightscape/DESCRIPTION:License: GPL-2
```


Looks like it's time for a little

```
sed -i "s/License: .*/License: CC0/" */DESCRIPTION
```

Yeehaw!

Just for the sake of being pendantic,

```bash
wget http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode.txt
mv legalcode.txt LICENSE
echo */R/.. | xargs -n 1 cp LICENSE 
```


### RCurl query from Scott

Translate a cURL command's `-d` flag to RCurl, e.g.

```bash
curl -H "X-Gauges-Token: <token>" \
     -d "title=Example" \
     -d "tz=Eastern Time (US %26 Canada)" \
     https://secure.gaug.es/gauges
```

I proposed

```r
httpPOST("https://secure.gaug.es/gauges", 
         postfields="title=Example&tz=Eastern Time (US %26 Canada)", 
         httpHeader=c("X-Gauges-Token"="<token>"), verbose=TRUE)
```

Though here is an [SO example](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12302941/) with slightly more elegant construction of postfields. 


## Two column layout with `longtable`

Pandoc now uses the `longtable` package to generate tables.  Annoyingly,
these insist on being single-column objects and are not handled properly
by `elsarticle` two-column layouts.  To get around this, I edit
the latex Pandoc creates, wrapping the table in a float environment
(`\begin{figure}`), followed by a toggle to `\onecolumn`.  After the
`longtable` envirnoment block ends, I include the caption, then toggle
back to `\twocolumn` layout.  I also have to tune the width of the
`minipage` objects used by `longtable`, and change its alignment option
to left-align (`\begin{longtable}[l]`). After these modifications I have
a nice floating table in the width of a single column, embedded in my
two-column layout.

Brilliantly, arXiv has no trouble with the scores of extra package
dependencies introduced by pandoc, as long as the document is pdflatex
compatible (no xelatex, hence non-ascii UTF-8, or custom fonts, sorry).
Still far ahead of my experience submitting the same document to the
acutal journal...

This nicely formatted tex is in the repository as [arxiv-copy.tex]().
Should be generated from source with `make fancy`, since default `make`
builds the 1980s plaintex format for the journal.  I need to add make
commands to automatically wrap the longtable as described above, hopefully
a few lines of `sed` should do this...


So, arXiv copy sumbmitted... stay tuned on Thursday.  

