---
layout: post
published: false
category: ecology
tags: 
- nonparametric-bayes

---




## Nonparametric-bayes

* Establishing chunck dependencies, simplifying and abstracting code. 

## Clean code for complicated scripts




Pseudo-code somewhat captured by the chuncks.  Ideal would be:

* Define models
* Define parameters
* Simulate data
* Estimate MLE 
* Estimate under GPP
* Allen MCMC
* Ricker MCMC
* Myers MCMC
* Determine optimal policy for each...
* Simulation
* Graphs 

## A preponderance of preprint servers

Having sent in my review for IEE, do I also post it on the peerJ preprint?  File each complaint or suggestion as issue on the paper's Github repository?  Post a comment on the corresponding author's blogpost on the paper? In my own online notebook?  Oh, the reviewer's plight!  From review-recognition poverty to an embarassment of riches! 

## Other writing and thoughts

* Open Science cover letters?
* [In which I rant about scientific software]() again 

## ews-review

* re-submitted. [submmitted_revisions tag](https://github.com/cboettig/ews-review/tags)


## Reading  

* `r citet("10.1126/science.1231535", "critiques")` utoh... I rant about software again

* [Are unreasonably harsh reviews retarding the pace of coral reef science?](http://theseamonster.net/2013/05/are-unreasonably-harsh-reviewers-retarding-the-pace-of-coral-reef-science/)  I applaud the spirit of this piece.  When I saw the article, `r citet("", "discusses")` appear on PeerJ last week I thought to myself, "Ooh, looks like controversial stuff! Bravo for using a preprint server," so it is quite delightful to read the back story and confirm my guess.  Though I am a proponent of open peer review, I find the practice of posting anonymous peer reviews a bit ethically murky still.  

## Misc

* Trying to submit [knitcitations](https://github.com/cboettig/knitcitations) to CRAN; 
  R-devel has updated linewrapping requirements that brake roxygen2 
  [roxygen/125](https://github.com/klutometis/roxygen/issues/125), so have to correct
  `.Rd` files after the fact.  

* My ans: [Open data vs Linked data](http://opendata.stackexchange.com/questions/522) on opendata.stackexchange

## Reading

