---
layout: post
published: false
category: ecology
tags: 
- nonparametric-bayes
- reading 

---


## Writing




## Reading

`r require(knitcitations); cite_options(tooltip=TRUE)`

* EasyABC by `r citet("10.1111/2041-210X.12050", "critiques")`.  While it's great that MEE publishes this stuff, this is unique in that the authors are updating and improving upon an existing package published by MEE the year before, `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2013.01.016", "discusses")`. The authors of the recent manuscript have certainly made an important contribution which deserves the traditional recognition provided by a separate publication, but one must wonder why we need another package instead of building on the existing one.  Is that necessary for the publication?  If only there was a way to fork the original package, make their additions, issue a pull request instead...  Could more research follow such a model?

* The rise of MOOCs may be old news, but the Nature column has a pretty excellent write-up on them all the same `r citet("10.1038/nature11397", "discusses")`, including a discussion of the challenges they face (e.g. completion rates) and how they might address them.  Only passingly addresses the challenges these pose for universities seeking to get on board -- such as the substantial upfront costs in providing content in a different medium and structure (see this recent [Inside HigherEd piece](http://www.insidehighered.com/blogs/technology-and-learning/why-moocs-may-drive-higher-ed-costs).  
* Nice column in *Nature* on job opportunities in risk management, `r citet("10.1038/nj7440-271a", "discusses")` which highlights the interdisciplinary nature of the work.  A pity they find the greatest market for jobs of this type in reinsurance companies and the smallest in academia...

* TREE debates the existence and relevance of tipping points in global context and `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2012.08.022", "critiques")`, seemingly on the grounds that the globe isn't a very connected place.    

* In the same issue, the usual suspects emphasize the idea that transitions due to saddle-node bifurcations need not be fast relative to the timescale of management `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2013.01.016", "critiques")`.  The "fast" transition represents a return to equilibrium at the new laternative stable state.  The authors remind us that this transient phase can take a long time (and amazingly failing to cite `r citet(" 10.1126/science.263.5150.1133", "discusses")`, `r citet("10.1046/j.1461-0248.2001.00220.x", "discusses")`, or `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2003.09.007", "discusses")` in the process). 

## References

```{r echo=FALSE, results="asis"}
bibliography()
```
