---
layout: post
category: ecology
tags:
- nonparametric-bayes
- ropensci

---


- nonparametric-bayes writing writing. see commits.
- Started slides for Mangel group retreat. (in progress).
- Working on requested review... background reading too.
- reml read methods for `data.set` class, extending `attributeList` metadata tools.  


### Scribble notes for interivew

- we are where math was 400 years ago - present theorem without proof.  
- code plays an ever-increasing role in our research, and hence in describing what we have done
- potentially the most precise and consise way to describe a method.  Also potentially the most obuscated or incoherent 
- we value writing. we value clean and documented wet lab technique.  

- inline code vs software papers.  Mozilla will focus on the former. the latter is more difficult. 
- practices external to the code itself matter -- maintenance, test suites, version control

### Reading



#### structural uncertainty, etc 

1. Weitzman, M. L. Landing Fees vs Harvest Quotas with Uncertain Fish Stocks. Journal of Environmental Economics and Management 43, 325-338 (2002). (doi:10.1006/jeem.2000.1181)
3. Weitzman, M. L. A Precautionary Tale of Uncertain Tail Fattening. Environmental and Resource Economics 55, 159-173 (2013). (doi:10.1007/s10640-013-9646-y)
4. Weitzman, M. Structural uncertainty and the value of statistical life in the economics of catastrophic climate change. (2007). at <http://www.nber.org/papers/w13490>

#### ecoinformatics

5. Smith, V. et al. Beyond dead trees: integrating the scientific process in the Biodiversity Data Journal. Biodiversity Data Journal 1, e995 (2013). (doi:10.3897/BDJ.1.e995)

##### methodology

7. Millar, R., Anderson, M. & Zunun, G. 2005 Fitting nonlinear environmental gradients to community data: a general distance-based approach. Ecology 86, 2245-2251. 
8. McArdle, B. & Anderson, M. 2001 Fitting multivariate models to community data: a comment on distance-based redundancy analysis. Ecology 82, 290-297. 
