---
published: false
layout: post
category: ecology
tags: 
- 

---


## Work Work

- Finished review for R Journal (Wednesday)
- Finished review for TE.
- Began review for NSF
- updated service list (vita) 


- Handling reimbursement of expenses


## Misc

- Whoa, we can/should now use http://doi.org instead of http://dx.doi.org


## Software Sustainability materials

Seems like a popular new item, listing a couple recent articles in one place here:

- 
- [Perspective in _Science_](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1231535), [a critique](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.341.6143.236-b) and [author's rebuttal](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.341.6143.237-a)
- [Mozilla Science Lab Code Review](http://kaythaney.com/2013/08/08/experiment-exploring-code-review-for-science/)


## Some Online writing

Couldn't resist weighing in on [this "don't require data sharing"](http://ideas4sustainability.wordpress.com/2013/07/13/a-critical-appraisal-of-a-new-paper-on-big-data-and-the-future-of-ecology) post. Draft of my comments for my record:


> Joern, thanks for a well written and provocative position. As you say in the comments, these kind of discussions really let these issues come to life. I think you raise some important points that clearly resonate with others.

> Personally I feel like there is a bit of a false dichotomy being drawn. I don’t see the position of Stephanie and co-authors as proposing a particularly radical change but rather one that most ecologists from a half century ago would easily recognize — data is a part of the publication. Likewise most journals require this already. Somewhere when data got to long to fit in a table in a printed journal, we stopped providing it. Would it be okay if I left out a description of my modeling or statistical method for fear that others would steal or misuse it?

> I may have misunderstood some of your points, so to address them one-by-one:

> 1. “We don’t need more data”: Surely you can’t believe that. You, Stephanie, and others all eloquently argue for the need for field biologists going out and collecting more data.

> 2. “Misuse”: sure, but this is a risk of publishing too, isn’t it (see the lively debate in the pages of Nature over whether the H1N1 mutants paper could be published)? Or perhaps a more obvious example, a risk of publishing mathematical or statistical methods, whose misuse is widely bemoaned. I don’t see limiting access as the solution to miss-use, but rather that the benefits must outweigh the costs. Sure, restrict use and you’ll always decrease misuse too. But does misuse of the data you have in mind really justify the lost potential use? (It didn’t in the case of the deadly infectious virus…)

> 3. “Ethics / Modelers dominating journals”. Of course field biologists perform interesting analyses, they don’t just collect data. Actually I think they are in a better position to capitalize on improved access to data than most modelers by drawing on their familiarity with the context and challenges of real data. Pursue recent issues of Theoretical Ecology, Journal of Population Biology or Journal of Mathematical Biology and I think you’ll still find most modeling papers have only cursory connection to data, if at all; but instead make their way through elucidating logical arguments through mathematics. Meanwhile the analyses of most field researchers are far from trivial, and their insights go far beyond just providing data. So what do they have to lose?

> I see Hampton et al’s position as incremental to the scientific framework just as a matter of scale. Science is awesome, comes up with awesome stuff. But just as it would be silly and slow down science if we avoided distributing publications in a digital format native to the way we access and read information today, it is silly not to distribute data in in an intelligent digital format that we actually access and use rather than in a manner that is historical artefact. Sure, either way _works_, but the digital solution is faster and scales to more researchers. Yeah, I’m sure it has downsides — so does digital publishing replacing print journals. But I think it’s a pretty clear case that the benefits outweigh the costs.

> Sorry for the long reply. In short, I see this as a set of best practices that will make existing science run more smoothly. As datasets gain more recognition as independent entities from papers (because the data doesn’t fit in the paper, so it’s become a separate entity already), I think data producers are likely to benefit, as some evidence already shows (genome papers?). The same arguments could be made of software, which captures methodology that has outgrown the printed paper. But the basic idea would be familiar to Darwin or Galton or MacArthur.

-------------------

Ugh, and writing to JSTOR because metadata would be nice...

> Dear JSTOR,

> It would be excellent if you could provide standard metadata for the publications in your archive on your HTML pages, the way most publishers already do, e.g. using Dublin Core or the Google Scholar format (actually the Highwire Press format I believe,see http://scholar.google.com/intl/en/scholar/inclusion.html#indexing), which would enable Google Scholar and other search engines to better index and lead traffic to your content without having to scrape this information from the PDFs (which clearly doesn't work with the older, image-based pdfs).  

> This would be particularly valuable for your older content that does not have a DOI available. It would also automatically solve my request for an API to serve metadata, as existing tools (e.g. http://greycite.knowledgeblog.org ) could extract this. 

>Sincerely,

>Carl Boettiger
