---
layout: post
published: false
categories: ecology
tags:
- semantics
- ropensci
- eml
- reading
---


This post creates new tag [eml]() for posts discussing the Ecological Markup Langauge or the implementation of an R parser thereof ([reml](https://github.com/ropensci/reml)).  


### Why EML?  

[Jones et al.(2005)][1] give an excellent explanation describing the relative advantage of the descriptive metadata approach over vertically integrated repositories (such as Genbank, TreeBase, or many other repostories that have been the focus of rOpenSci development to date).  

In short, the EML approach allows archiving of very heterogeneous data without having to standardize everything into a narrow and pre-defined syntax.  

### Providers of EML

As far as I can tell, the long-term ecological research program sites are responsible for almost all available EML files.  XML files in specificed schemas involve strict criteria and are thus best generated by software. 

### Use cases of EML

These sites seem to do a better job generating this data than making any use of it -- a [review of the project][LTER] mentions "a common metadata" standard in passing and without citation.  While providing nice examples of the breadth of ecological data as published by a range of researchers and journals, it provides little obvious example of synthesis. I just reread Jones et al. review to confirm that it provides no examples of papers involving data synthesis based on EML (instead citing a single example of manual data synthesis to illustrate the challenges involved).  


### Generating EML

[Metacat][metacat] a GPL program written in Java by EML authors Matt and co, describes itself as a database that uses EML to store data. It might be a useful tool for generating EML, but looks pretty intimidating to me.   

[Morpho][morpho] is aimed at documenting species trait data, and looks like a rather useful if tedious tool for generating EML files.  







They give far less verbage to describing the dificulty of this approach, for the developers of the standard, for the implementation of tools that can use the standard, and for users themselves.  


## What can a package offer?

Translating xpath commands into R function wrappers probably provides little utility.  Do we really need a `get_authors` function in place of `getNodeSet(doc, "//creator")`?  Of course we might want to convert the returned nodes into characters strings or R `person` objects.  We might want to  


What do Kepler, Metacat, Morpho, etc provide for interfaces with EML?  



## 

Can I have endpoints (URLs) for all public EML files in KNB?  


[1]: http://10.1146/annurev.ecolsys.37.091305.110031 
[metacat]: 
[LTER]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-90-481-8782-9_5
[morpho]: 

  

* Annual Review discussing "ecoinformatics" and the EML approach `r citet("10.1146/annurev.ecolsys.37.091305.110031", "discusses")`. 
* The use of ontologies in ecology `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2007.11.007", "usesMethodIn")` 
* Updated, shorter review in TREE `r citet("10.1016/j.tree.2011.11.016", "discusses")`
* Simple EML introduction in _Frontiers_ `r citet("10.1890/0012-9623(2005)86[158:MTVOED]2.0.CO;2", "discusses")`


