---
layout: post
category: computation
tags:
- ropensci
---


## rocker / docker

- Talking over strategy with Dirk, see summary in
[#1](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rocker/issues/1) and follow-up
issues, [#3](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rocker/issues/3),
[#4](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rocker/issues/4),
[#5](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rocker/issues/5).


## rdataone & EML

Trying to fix travis issues. Much craziness.

`travis.sh` doesn't provide notes on setup for repos where the R package
is in a subdirectory.  Looks like `cd` commands are persistent though
throughout a travis file.  okay.


- `dataone` is imported by EML but suggested by `dataone`.  Since
`install_github` likes to install the suggests list, this creates
problems:

- `travis.sh install_github` has no way to indicate that I don't want
to install suggests list.

- `install_github("DataONEorg/dataone/dataone", dependencies=NA)` should
get around this by not installing the suggested EML package when trying
to install `dataon`.  For reasons inexplicable to me, that doesn't seem
to work(!), at least on travis.  I've had to remove the package from
the suggests list.


The build environment often seems a lot more fragile than the package
itself.  EML travis builds were rather badly broken with both `dataone`
and `rrdf` disappearing from CRAN.  If we were installing them from the
ubuntu binaries, of course this wouldn't be quite as common a problem.
Or even better, if our build environment came as a custom docker image.
Fixing this is not completely trivial: we now have to install these
packages from github, which in the case of rrdf means installing the latex
build environment simply to build the rrdf vignette that we don't need.

While these issues can no doubt frustrate users as well, I'm not convinced
that CI should really be testing build environment problems when I want
it to be testing changes I'm making to my package. In the big picture, we
need more stable build environments, and of course I'm asking for trouble
by depending on lots of packages, particularly new, complex and otherwise
fragile packages, so this testing is valuable.  But on the other hand,
this mostly just gets in the way. Ideally I should be able to point to
a stable build environment and just ignore changes to the later packages
until I want to deal with them.  That's what most users do with their own
systems -- not upgrading their personal libraries, distributions, etc,
until they are ready to deal with anything that breaks.  Being forced
onto the bleeding edge all the time forces me to waste considerable time
or accept a broken CI state that need not actually be broken.

