---
layout: post
category: ecology
tags:
- eml

---



EML
--------------

I've added a interface for custom units. You don't have to mess around
with `additionalMetadata` as it should be handled automatically.
Just define the unit itself, like this [^1]:

```coffee
  create_custom_unit(id = "metersSquaredPerHectare",
                     parentSI = "dimensionless",
                     unitType = "dimensionless",
                     multiplierToSI = "0.0001",
                     description = "Square meters per hectare")
```

and then use the `id` you give as the unit type in your `unit.defs`.
`create_custom_unit` updates a `custom_units` list in the `EMLConfig`
environment, which the `eml` or `write_eml` functions detect and use to
write in the additional metadata.  [^2]

If the custom unit is not defined and the session is interactive,
EML will prompt for essential fields in the unit definition.  Other
optional fields are also described in the documentation.

[^1]: Note that I just use "dimensionless" as an illustration here,
a the better choice might perhaps be to define an area/area `unitType`
as @mbjones discusses in #12.  (We'll add support for OBOE semantics
eventually, but that's much more complex)

[^2]: This isn't ideal, since the use of environments means the function
has "side effects" and you could inadvertently include unit definitions
you defined for some other reason in your EML file (if you didn't do
`eml_reset_config()` or start a fresh R session).  That wouldn't break
anything technical, but would seem a bit strange to define units you
didn't use.  The environment mechanism can be avoided by explicitly
passing list of custom_units to the `eml` or `eml_write` functions.



