---
layout: post
category: ecology
tags:
- eml

---


## Units in EML

Overview of how units are determined in the EML package:


```r
library(EML)
dat <- data.set(river = factor(c("SAC",  "SAC",   "AM")),
               spp   = c("Oncorhynchus tshawytscha",  "Oncorhynchus tshawytscha", "Oncorhynchus kisutch"),
               stg   = ordered(c("smolt", "parr", "smolt"), levels=c("parr", "smolt")), # levels indicates increasing level, eg. parr < smolt
               ct    = c(293L,    410L,    210L),
               day   = as.Date(c("2013-09-01", "2013-09-1", "2013-09-02")),

               stringsAsFactors = FALSE,

               col.defs = c("River site used for collection",
                            "Species scientific name",
                            "Life Stage",
                            "count of live fish in traps",
                            "day traps were sampled (usually in morning thereof)"),

               unit.defs = list(c(SAC = "The Sacramento River",                         # Factor, levels defined explicitly
                                  AM = "The American River"),
                                "Scientific name",                                      # Character string (levels not defined)
                                c(parr = "third life stage",                            # Ordered factor
                                  smolt = "fourth life stage"),
                                c(unit = "number", precision = 1, bounds = c(0, Inf)),  # Integer
                                c(format = "YYYY-MM-DD", precision = 1)))               # Date


```


The EML package provides a variety of interfaces to transform this into
EML format, depending on the level of granularity desired.  At the highest
level, as user can directly call `eml_write` (aliased as `write.eml`
to mimic other write file conventions),

```r
eml_write(dat, "example.xml", contact = "Carl Boettiger <cboettig@ropensci.org")
```

This call works simply by calling the lower level functions.  If `dat`
is already the S4 object representation for `eml` or `dataset` object,
they are dealt with directly. Otherwise, the function simply passes its
arguments to the `eml` constructor function.  The main difference between
the `eml` constructor and `write_eml` is that the `eml` function returns
an `eml` S4 object, while the `write_eml` function takes the additional
step of transforming the S4 `eml` structure into XML and writing it to
the desired file.

The `eml` function, also available to the user, has more optional
named arguments than `write_eml`, though these can all be given to
the higher level `write_eml` as well since they are passed through the
`...` mechanism.  (Its default arguments illustrate calls to some of the
lower-level constructors, such as `eml_coverage`, and will automatically
try and read `creator` and `contact` from the configuration environment if
they are not provided)

```r
> eml
function (dat = NULL, title = "metadata",
          creator = get("defaultCreator", envir = EMLConfig),
          contact = get("defaultContact", envir = EMLConfig),
          coverage = eml_coverage(scientific_names = NULL,
                                  dates = NULL,
                                  geographic_description = NULL,
                                  NSEWbox = NULL),
          methods = new("methods"),
          ...,
          additionalMetadata = c(new("additionalMetadata")),
          citation = NULL,
          software = NULL,
          protocol = NULL)

```


Because all other arguments are optional, it is sufficient to call this
function with the `dat` argument alone.  The `data` object is allowed
to be `NULL` if at least one of the other top-level alternatives to a
`dataset` is provided: `citation`, `software` or `protocol`.

```r
my_eml <- eml(dat)
```

This function follows the same logic as before:  The function first
constructs a unique identifier for the EML `packageId`. If `dat` is
already an S4 `dataset` or `dataTable` object it is added immediately
to a `new("eml"` object; otherwise a `dataTable` object is constructed
with the next helper function, `eml_dataTable`.  (These constructors
prefaced with (`eml_`) are always just thin wrappers around the direct
construction of these S4 objects with `new("classname", ...)`, and exist
just to simplify certain things wich are usually and frequently automated,
such as creating unique ide elements.)

So far our `data.set` object `dat` is just passed unchanged from
`write_eml` to `eml` to `eml_dataTable`.

```r
my_dataTable <- eml_dataTable(dat)
```

This constructor is the first to
peer inside the `dat` object, extracting metadata for the `attributeList`
elements.  (The `dat` object is also passed to the `eml_physical`
constructor, which will use the actual `data.frame` to write the csv file.)



The metadata extraction is performed in two steps. First, the helper function
`detect_class` extracts a list of the necessary metadata from the `data.set`.
Then this list is coerced into an EML `attributeList` (**Note** in this review
it becomes clear that the coercion is not a flexible and robust way to handle this,
so this task is now performed by `eml_attributeList` and in turn, `eml_attribute`,
following the same logic as above.) Currently, `detect_class`
takes the legacy format of having a `data.frame` and a list of `meta` objects,
structured as column name, col definitions, and unit defintions (each as
character vectors, like in a `data.set`. Here is where things get tricky.
`detect_class` uses the declared class of the column to decide how to interpret
the column and unit metadata, using the following mapping:

```
numeric or integer : ratio
ordered factor: ordinal/enumeratedDomain
factor : nominal/enumeratedDomain
POSIXlt, POSIXct, Date : dateTime
character : nominal/textDomain
```

Looks like to would be best for `eml_attribute` to handle this mapping itself,
particulary since the different conventions bifurcate at different spots (e.g.
we must know if a  `nominal` is enumerated or text). This could also allow for
finer handling of optional unit information, such as the bounds or precision.










