---
layout: post
title: linking binaries from other containers
category: computation
tags:
- docker
---


Been thinking about this for a while, but @benmarwick 's examples with
`--volumes-from` convinced me to give this a try.

While there's an obvious level of convenience in having something like
LaTeX bundled into the `hadleyverse` container so that users can build
nice pdfs, if often feels not very docker-esque to me to just throw the
kitchen sink into a container.  At the risk of some added complexity,
we can provide LaTeX from a dedicated TeX container to a container that
doesn't have it built in, like `rocker/rstudio`.  Check this out:

First, we run the docker container providing the texlive binaries
as linked volume.  Note that even after the 4 GB `texlive` container
has been downloaded that this is slow to execute due to the volume
linking flag (not really sure why that is). 

``` 
docker run --name tex -v /usr/local/texlive leodido/texlive true
```

Once the above task is complete, we can run the `rstudio` container,
which doesn't have tex installed by itself, and access tex by linking:

```
docker run -dP --volumes-from tex \
 -e PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/texlive/2014/bin/x86_64-linux/ \
 rocker/rstudio
```

We can now log into RStudio, create a new Rnw file and presto, RStudio
discovers the tex compilers and builds us a pdf.  This does make our
Docker execution lines a bit long, but that's what [fig](www.fig.sh)
is for.  (Or a good ole Makefile).


Note this requires we build `texlive` in a way that isolates it to
it's own path (e.g. `/usr/local/texlive`).  The default installation
with `apt-get` installs everything in separate locations that
overlap with existing directories (like `/usr/bin`), which makes
linking clumsy or impossible (we would need separate paths for all
the components, e.g. since shared libraries aren't found under the
`bin` path, and we cannot link such a volume to another container
without destroying everything in it's `/usr/bin`, clearly not a
good idea).  Instead, if we use the standard `texlive` install script
from [https://www.tug.org/texlive/](https://www.tug.org/texlive/),
this installs everything into `/usr/local/texlive` which is much more
portable as illustrated above.  Not quite sure if it's actually a good
idea to build containers this way or not.

I'll keep shipping latex inside the `hadleyverse` container (has about 300
MB of texlive that covers most common usecases), but this is certainly 
an intruging recipe to mix and match. 
