---
layout: post
category: open-science
tags:
- reading
- code-tricks
---



## Berkeley Collaborative Environment

Trying out the Berkeley image (Essentially ubuntu 14.04 XFCE with ipython
and RStudio installed, but finely tuned to improve user experience;
e.g. solid colors for faster remote window connections.)

Highly recommend [their paper](https://t.co/TJ9ObbL8i8) for the first
explanation I've actually been able to follow that provides a definition
of "DevOpts" (essentially, using scripts rather than documentation
to manage consistent cross-platform installation) and explains the
differences and similarities between the various programs operating in
this sphere, sometimes as alternatives and simultaneously.


#### Virtual machines.

Their approach focuses on running on top of a complete
virtual machine. Primarily considers Oracle's `virtualbox` for local use,
Amazon's AMI for cloud use.  (For an emerging alternative to the full
virtual machine approach, they discuss Docker).

#### Configuration management (CM) tools:

-   **Ansible** ("playbooks") used by the BCE to specify the complete
software environment. Compares to: **Chef** (Ruby-based, "recipes"),
**Salt** (Python based, "states"), and **Puppet** ("manifests").


#### Provisioning tools:

- **Packer** Used at build time to create a machine image for the VM.
Packer can use Ansible/Chef/Salt/Puppet files to do this.  Results in
a nice AMI for Amazon web console or an image for the virtualbox GUI.

- **Vagrant** Offers a different approach.  Rather than the developer
creating a VM image using Packer and Ansible script that is ready to
run on virtualbox or Amazon, the end user installs vagrant instead
of virtualbox. Vagrant also handles the job of Packer, in preparing
an environment to run (on Vagrant's virtual machine, rather than on
virtualbox). (Note that conversely, Packer can create a Vagrant virtual
machine just as easily as it can create the Oracle virtualbox or Amazon
AMI). Vagrant feels a lot more native, as the user works within their
familiar OS tools for editing, etc, while vagrant makes sure that
the execution of the software happens in a controlled, identical
environment.

- **Docker** offers a more modular alternative to a full virtual machine,
with performance that is more like running on 'bare metal', sharing the
kernel of the native OS; though at the moment it requires that be a linux
kernel. Docker is typically deployed using Vagrant, (though stand-alone
setup is emerging).


From first glance, Vagrant sounds like a more elegant approach than having
end users install Oracle's virtual machine and then learn to live in a
virtual window emulating the Ubuntu-XFCE desktop (particularly if those
users are developers!).  However, it seems that the BCE team found that
Vagrant was harder for students to work with, since it required knowledge
of the commandline.

The paper also provides a fabulous case study of a major scientific
software project using the "DevOpts" philosophy but without any of these
new and emerging tools, relying only on scripts, makefiles, and Linux
distribution package managers.


### Test drive impressions

Unfortunately, no luck getting
virtualization running on my laptop (due to [BIOS
issues](ttps://github.com/dlab-berkeley/collaboratool/issues/created_by/cboettig)).
Testing on Ubuntu desktop required a newer version of virtualbox than
what's in the 12.04 repos, but otherwise just worked.  It's straight
forward to install additional needed software, and virtualbox gives
the option of preserving the machine state on exit, presumably with
the software.  Not clear how that should be managed to avoid re-creating
the problems that using a consistent image set out to avoid in the first
place; perhaps requires re-provisioning a divergent image?

Nice experience testing out the Amazon machine image, but I think the
workflow would be improved if it provided RStudio server for a more
interactive interface.


Misc tasks
-----------

- Working on reveal.js slides


- RNeXML manuscript edits from Francois's comments


Thoughts on namespaces (in R)
-----------------------------

_Chatting with Scott about namespace practices, thought I'd put
some of this down._

I go back and forth on having a small namespace (particularly vs
convenience functions).  It is certainly easier to maintain, but from
the user's perspective I think it's pretty easy to just ignore extra
functions; as long as it's well documented what functions they need to
know to get started.

I guess if a user needs to know too many functions to do anything, than
it becomes hard to keep track of. That's partly why I started wrapping
exposed functions. For instance, you can just use `nexml_write` all the
time and never use add_characters, add_trees, etc, since `nexml_write`
takes additional trees and characters as arguments.

But I like function calls to be as semantic as possible so the code is
more self documenting.  Sometimes `add_characters(nex)` is more self
explanatory than `nexml_write(nex, characters = characters)`.


The XML package really got me started on this.  There's usually like
4 or 5 ways to do the same thing. Sometimes that's really annoying,
but sometimes it helps write more transparent code or less verbose code
(e.g. adding child nodes with `addChildren` vs passing as `.children`
argument to `newXMLNode` -- the former tends to be more semantic, the
latter often more consise).


## Code tricks: vim pandoc

Vim pandoc syntax highlighting

- Recognize `.Rmd` as a pandoc-syntax file extension. In `.vimrc` do:

```vim
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.Rmd set filetype=pandoc
```

- Enable syntax highlighting inside code blocks, by language. In vim session, do: `PandocHighlight r`. Unfortunately doesn't recognize the default `.Rmd` format used by RStudio.  This then enables syntax highlighting, folding, etc.


If I recall correctly, knitr's default markdown syntax,

~~~
```{r}
~~~

was intended to be a valid markdown syntax. It seems Github Flavored
markdown is happy to recognize this as markdown syntax for a code
block in the R language, but while pandoc recognizes this as a code
block, it does not recognize the language.

I believe Pandoc does recognize the format

~~~
```{.r options}
~~~

as the notation to specify the R language in this notation. I like
this notation because it means that pandoc-aware syntax highlighters
will highlight my code chunks as R code, which does not happen in the
default syntax.

I realize I could define this as an input hook for knitr, but am
reluctant to do so as it makes my code slightly less familiar/less
portable to other users (e.g. RStudio expects and integrates with only
the standard notation.)




