---
layout: post
published: false
---


I've found Pandoc's templating system to be immensely powerful, particularly with the yaml headers now supported.  Nonetheless, I sometimes wish I could break templates into more re-usable components; similar to the the way `_includes` provides re-usable components for the templates specified in the `_layouts` directory of a jekyll site.  I'm curious if there's already a way to do this or if something like this might be supported in the future?

My first thought was to simply add the re-usable elements into a metadata block itself. (This seemed particularly promising since we can already have an external metadata.yaml to provide a metadata block we can use across multiple file).  However, it seems that Pandoc always escape the html contents in my yaml metadata.  For instance, if I add the block:


```
---
header: |
    <header class="something"><h1>$title$</h1></header>
---
```

and then in my template add $header$, I get the above block but with all the angle brackets escaped.  I had thought since I have denoted this as a literal block with '|' in the yaml I would get this block unaltered.  How can I prevent pandoc from escaping the html? (I realize that still wouldn't parse the $title$ metadata, but that's a separate issue).  

The other approach I considered is to exploit the  --include-before-body and --include-after-body arguments.  While more limited since I am restricted to these two variables, this approach does allow me to specify a file with a re-usable component block and avoids the issue of HTML escaping observed above.  Other than the limit of two such variables, the other limit to this approach is that metadata elements like $title$ are processed only in templates, not in files.  


It seems like pandoc is thus really close to being able to support templates that are made from re-usable blocks rather than completely specified from scratch, but not quite there.  I realize pandoc isn't trying to be a replacement for static website generation, but still feel that re-usable blocks would make the existing template system a bit more flexible and user-friendly.  

Quite a few of pandoc's current functions already approximate this behavior in a hard-wired fashion; e.g. $highlight-css$ uses the --highlight-style option to select among a bunch of pre-defined highlight blocks.  Thus I suspect pandoc might be easier to extend in the future if such features could just be added through an include mechanism rather than this hardwired approach. Would others find such functionality feasible or useful?

Thanks for considering, and I'd love to hear of any work-arounds for this meanwhile (or if this is already possible and I'm simply confused). This seems to be in the spirit of https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/issues/1638 but that doesn't speak to the issues I raise here with metadata etc.  
